https://nonprofitally.com/start-a-nonprofit/nonprofit-bylaws/\#link_acc-1-4-d

**We propose the following method for Blockchains’ governance:**

Prosperity need not be a scarce resource. The success of every company is a
collaborative effort enabled by overlapping, cooperating, and competitive
communities of stakeholders. Just as the success of every company is a product
of interdependence, the prosperity won through this collaboration should be
shared. Blockchains is therefore committed to serving these communities in all
our products, services, and partnerships. To best serve these communities, we
propose a new structure for corporate governance that formalizes stakeholder
power to determine company ethos, mission, strategy, and other policies.

-   [1 Cooperative Bylaws should
    include:](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#Cooperative_Bylaws_should_include:)

    -   [1.1 I.    Mission, purpose, and legal
        structure ](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#I..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Mission.2C_purpose.2C_and_legal_structure.C2.A0)

**Vision/purpose:** To inspire and empower possibility

**Mission**: Promote and demonstrate the ethical use and innovation of
technologies and ideas that empower the individual, improve social coordination,
and provide sustainable infrastructure.

-   [1.2 II.   
    Membership](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#II..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Membership)

As a distributed collaborative entity (DCE), Blockchains is comprised not only
of those on our payroll, but also a set of voting stakeholder groups with their
own internal governance frameworks, and stock holders. Those who hold company
stock, are employed by our company, and/or are members of any currently existing
formally-recognized stakeholder group are members in the Blockchains DCE.

Individuals who own voting stock are voting members of the DCE. Individuals who
do not personally own or possess stock in Blockchains can also be members if
they are granted membership to a formalized stakeholder group. Each stakeholder
group is responsible for defining its own criteria for admission.

Stakeholders are the people who have the ability to affect and be affected by
the success of our company, and work with us to succeed. Not all stakeholders
necessarily belong to formalized stakeholder groups. Formally represented
stakeholder groups have the right to board representation, and may be granted
some percent of the total voting power, and/or profit-sharing rights.

**Membership Status Changes**:

Stakeholder groups are admitted to and removed from the DCE when the majority of
board members vote to include the group and existing members of the DCE do not
veto the decision. The board is responsible for proposing the voting power and
profit-sharing rights of proposed stakeholder groups. Once a board decision has
been reached to change the membership status of a stakeholder group and the
corresponding change in voting and profit-sharing power, a vote opens to all
voting members of the DCE, which remains open for a period of [2 weeks?]. The
member-wide membership-deciding vote is a three-part ballot*: “Should this group
be allowed? If so, how much VP? How much profit?”* Unless vetoed by 2/3 majority
of the voting power participating in the vote, the board decision regarding
membership status stands. To decide voting and profit-sharing rights, voters
choose between a set of ranges, though no stakeholder group can hold majority
voting power upon admittance to the DCE (A. 1-10%, B. 11-20%, C. 21-30%). If the
board-chosen number lays within the most-selected universal-ballot decided
range, then that number stands. If the most selected option falls outside of the
board-decided option, then the newly admitted stakeholder group’s power will be
equal to the average between the board’s number and the number in the selected
range closest to the board’s.

>   Example: The board decides the new group should have 20% of the voting
>   power, but the stakeholders decide that the group should get between 1-10%
>   of the vote. In this case, the actual voting power of the newly admitted
>   stakeholder group is 15%.

**Termination**:

Stakeholder groups are permitted to withdraw their voting power or
profit-sharing rights at any point, without exiting the DCE. Stakeholder groups
have the right to exit the DCE at any point, and for any reason, by filing a
letter of resignation with the secretary. Stakeholder groups are responsible for
establishing their own protocols for termination of membership. Stockholders
cease to be members when they no longer own stock in the company, unless they
are members of the DCE through another stakeholder group.

**Member Rights and responsibilities:**

Blockchains is comprised of multiple member types that have varying
responsibilities, interests, and rights.

*Stockholders:* Ownership of company stock entitles the owner of that stock to
vote in non-stakeholder group-specific elections and ballots.

*Stakeholder groups:* Stakeholder groups are entitled to some percentage of
voting power and profit-sharing rights, which they are entitled to
distribute/allocate by whatever internal governance and/or organizational
structure they so choose (so long as that chosen structure does not violate any
of the agreed-upon DCE rights). Stakeholder groups are entitled to one or more
voting board representatives of the stakeholder group’s choosing.

*Members of stakeholder groups*: Individual members of stakeholder groups are
entitled to all DCE member rights, and to whatever profit and voting rights
granted to them by their stakeholder group.

*Board Members*:

-   Board members are responsible for setting the values, mission, and purpose
    of the company.

-   They are responsible for setting broad financial goals and policies.

-   Hiring and firing senior executives.

-   Ensuring that the company has the necessary resources to meet its stated
    goals, mission, and purpose.

-   They are responsible for setting dividend/profit-sharing policies, and
    options policies.

-   They support stakeholder groups in establishing and maintaining their
    governance structures.

-   They have both a fiduciary and ethical responsibility to the company
    stakeholders and shareholders.

-   Board members have the right to vote on all proposed resolutions.

Committees: Board members have the right to form and join board-level committees
at-will. All committees will be open to all board members. Committees may
propose board resolutions and policies, but adoption of said resolutions must
pass board-wide vote.

[1.3 III.    Membership
Meetings ](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#III..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Membership_Meetings.C2.A0)

-   [1.4 IV.    Board of
    Directors: ](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#IV..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Board_of_Directors:.C2.A0)

-   [1.5 V.    Board
    Officers](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#V..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Board_Officers)

-   [1.6 VI.   
    Finances](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#VI..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Finances)

-   [1.7 VII.    Administration and
    Miscellaneous](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#VII..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Administration_and_Miscellaneous)

-   [1.8 VIII.    Amendment to the
    Bylaws](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#VIII..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Amendment_to_the_Bylaws)

-   [1.9 IX.   
    Dissolution](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#IX..C2.A0.C2.A0.C2.A0_Dissolution)

-   [2 Model Bylaws for A Worker
    Cooperative](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#Model_Bylaws_for_A_Worker_Cooperative)

-   [3 References ](http://cultivate.coop/wiki/Cooperative_Bylaws#References.C2.A0)

**A proposed set of values**

Prosperity need not be a scarce resource. The success of every company is a
collaborative effort enabled by overlapping, cooperating, and competitive
communities of stakeholders. Just as the success of every company is a product
of interdependence, the prosperity won through this collaboration should be
shared. Blockchains is therefore committed to serving these communities in all
our products, services, and partnerships. To best serve these communities, we
aim to empower individuals from these groups to participate in the governance of
our organization, and we have developed a set of guiding principles to govern
our relationships and joint projects with collaborative entities:

-   Privacy is a civil right.

-   Technological systems are first and foremost human systems, and as such
    should be built to best enable a freer, more open and fair future.

-   Individuals should have input in the development and design of systems,
    technological or otherwise, that affect them.

-   Individuals unsatisfied with the systems affecting them have the right to
    exit them.

-   Stakeholder access to verifiable information regarding partnerships and
    business practices is a prerequisite for democratic governance.

-   We strive to create products and services that repair and support healthy
    ecosystems by sustainably promoting biodiversity and responsible energy
    usage.

-   Employees are entitled to market-competetive compensation.

-   Ethical products and services are best created through partnership with
    consumers to identify and serve their needs.

-   Individuals have the right to control access to their data.

-   Technology should enable accessibility to people of diverse abilities.

We seek to transform the relationship between businesses and the communities
supporting them to best leverage our shared interests to realize a more
human-centric future. We will use blockchain technology to create more
democratic, transparent, and efficient alternatives to legacy systems, including
but not limited to our financial, information, energy, corporate and political
institutions. Together, we can incubate and implement technology to the mutual
benefit of our companies, employees, and communities – both local and global –
and create a blueprint for a brighter future.
