**BLOCKCHAINS’ DISTRIBUTED COLLABORATIVE ENTITY: A NEW MULTI-STAKEHOLDER
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL**

**Introduction**

You hear a lot about governance in the Ethereum community. There’s a common
sentiment:

*We desperately need a better governance model, or Ethereum will fail to scale –
or worse, it will scale but become a decentralized machine of corruption and
social manipulation.*

At Blockchains, we’re faced with similar concerns. We’re trying to build a smart
city to incubate blockchain and other advanced technologies – and use it to
prove to ourselves and others that a better world is possible. If successful, we
hope individuals and organizations might be inspired by our example and that the
technologies built here will allow them to follow suit.

We know that’s a tall task; we’re idealistic, not naive. Our mission requires
significant innovation, adaptability, and resilience – and it requires
coordination and collaboration among municipalities, organizations, and
businesses, all with varying purposes and responsibilities. So how do we
effectively accommodate the interests of multiple independent entities while
maintaining commitment to our purpose? How do we structure governance to promote
adaptability and innovation? How do we prevent the need for growth and the love
of power from corrupting our mission from the inside out?

We’ve got some ideas, but we don’t have all the answers. We want your feedback
as we publicly document the development of the governance model behind the
world’s first distributed collaborative entity (DCE). For this reason, we’re
choosing to be as transparent as is reasonably possible from the start. Over the
coming months, we’ll publish a series of posts specifying our roadmap and
methods; providing development updates; and making formalized means available
for interested community members to offer feedback and ask questions.

For now, let me invite you into our process and orient you to our perspective.

**The Failures of Big Tech**

Ethereum, and the blockchain community more broadly, is deeply familiar with the
ways in which Web 2.0 has failed us. Centralized services run by organizations
with opaque power structures, black-boxed code, and profit-motivated venture
capitalists and shareholders have created systems where our personal information
is vulnerable to attacks and mismanagement. Worse, ever-accelerating profit
growth stands before the welfare of humans and our planet.

In the existing system, there’s rarely a clear way to voice concern and
influence change from within, leaving unsatisfied users (and employees) no
option but to boycott, protest, or leave. But that’s difficult because many
software platforms, especially social media, are designed to manipulate emotions
in a way that makes users reliant upon them. The addictive capacity of these
technologies is a widely acknowledged fact within software development
communities, but ethics often get lost in the race to develop new technologies
quickly and drive profits. Even if someone has the will to stop using these
platforms, some technologies have become so ubiquitous that it’s nearly
impossible to exit them completely.

It’s also true these technology companies have contributed enormously to the
world by offering accessible, affordable information, products, and services.
Thanks to the innovations of their founders and employees, we can now easily
communicate, connect, and trade with people across the globe, allowing for an
unprecedented proliferation of collaboration and innovation. We’re far from
techno-pessimists. The power unleased by Web 2.0 can hardly be overstated, and
we think it has provided the foundation for a collaborative, free, and open
future. We’re just not there yet. First, we need to address governance.

**Profit-Motivated Stakeholder Rule**

At Blockchains, we think some of these systems’ negative impacts result from the
incentives that motivate decision makers to structure their systems this way. To
understand why, it’s helpful to look at how public corporations are typically
structured. Below is an organizational chart of a standard public corporation:

![https://www.blockchains.com/uploads/infographic_1_v2-002-.png](media/dc592e035300e35add4e98ab80b3030d.png)

Most corporations concentrate power at the top, where the CEO and board of
directors (usually consisting of the CEO, other senior executives, and third
parties) make major decisions related to strategies, policies, budgets, and
executive-level hiring. Under this model, the board is appointed by
stockholders, comprising venture capitalists, employees, founders, and (in the
case of a public company) institutional investors. Either way, individual
shareholders have little power. In short, if a corporation is private, it’s
likely controlled by big-time initial investors and founders. If a corporation
is public, it’s controlled by institutional investors and probably its founders.

The board’s responsibility is to maximize the value of stocks on behalf of the
stockholders. In most cases, stockholders can sue the company for not upholding
its fiduciary responsibilities, which require the board to act (in a way
reasonable people would believe to be) in the financial best interests of the
company. The exception here is so-called “benefit corporations,” which have a
legal obligation to prioritize environmental and/or social good, as well as
legal protections to prioritize long-term value over short-term shareholder
profits. However, specific protections vary between states, and almost no
benefit corporations are public companies.

It turns out that even when shareholders are granted legal protections, the
influence of their financial interests is outsized. This is in part because the
company relies on shareholders for funding; if the shareholders are dissatisfied
with the board enough to sell, coupled by a decrease in stock value, this can
hurt the company’s ability to raise money in future offerings. Plus, since
shareholders elect the board, they’re the only formally represented stakeholder
group (other than the board itself) in the corporate governance process.

This isn’t to imply a company shouldn’t focus on profits – of course, money must
be made to successfully provide jobs, products, and services – but that
financial self-interest shouldn’t be the only motivation around which
world-shaping companies are built. *When it comes to building the technologies
of our future, there’s so much more at stake than profit.*

While it’s certainly true there are a lot of corporations that actively consider
the impact of their business and that may even exist primarily to benefit their
communities, it’s also evident that the way these companies are structured
concentrates decision-making power at the top, imparting an enormous
responsibility to recognize, appreciate, and accommodate the interests of
diverse – and potentially conflicting – stakeholder groups. Having a small
number of decision makers makes it difficult for outcomes to reflect the
interests of the people affected by decisions, regardless of good intentions.
It’s also true that the people responsible for imparting these individuals with
that power are organized around, and motivated almost entirely by, financial
self-interest.

**Stakeholders: Beyond Financial Self-Interest**

One problem with benefit corporations is that they attempt to remedy, with good
intentions, a governance model unequipped to meaningfully consider the interests
of diverse stakeholders by using an incentive model fundamentally misaligned
with the public good.

At Blockchains, we seek to form relationships, incubate technologies, and build
new systems of organizational coordination to create a meaningfully better
option than existing institutions. We think that if more transparent, dynamic
systems for various stakeholder groups to make decisions affecting shared
resources were more common, then the world might be a much better place. Imagine
if there were formalized systems for myriad stakeholder groups – possessing
their own motivations and responsibilities – to exercise their voice and
collaborate around decision-making such that more interests were considered and
weighted fairly.

What if major tech companies weren’t controlled by individuals and institutions
focused primarily on advertising dollars and profits but instead by users,
digital ethics groups, and employees? We believe those companies would be much
more human-friendly.

**Multi-Stakeholder Governance**

To address the woes we see in the tech industry, and their rootedness in the
dominant corporate governance model, Blockchains is creating the world’s first
distributed collaborative entity (DCE) – a new multi-stakeholder corporate
governance model to formalize governance at the stakeholder level.

Blockchains believes formalizing governance in this way will best allow groups
to organize according to, and advocate for, their interests when the board makes
decisions about shared resources. More concretely, consider the interests of
workers for a software company in contrast to customers: Employees might be most
interested in fair compensation, opportunities for career growth, and benefits
packages, whereas customers might be more concerned with affordable prices and
cybersecurity. In a multi-stakeholder model, each group might have a
representative to coordinate with the representatives of other stakeholder
groups such that everyone’s needs are considered when specifying DCE-level
organizational purpose and priorities.

![https://www.blockchains.com/uploads/infographic_2_900px.png](media/fd6fa46d803f889d66ded645699777a5.png)

Further, a formalized multi-stakeholder governance model would allow for
localized decision-making on resource distribution, meaning fewer universal
decisions would need to be made in the first place and, therefore, enabling
greater autonomy and agility while reducing conflict and other frictions. For
example, if every stakeholder group were given some portion of the company’s
profits, each group could decide independently how it might manage that budget.
Consider a company with formalized decision-making protocols for various teams
or projects; decisions could be made quicker and more individualized if the
decision makers were those familiar with the problems and the dynamics of their
teams. If all these teams were also given representation at the organizational
level, they would be best equipped to speak to project-specific challenges the
company could lend its resources to.

You can think of this model as similar, in some respects, to the European Union.
Some resources and decisions are universal, while others are up to individual
countries; each country has an internal government run by elected
representatives, while every country is also represented at the supranational EU
level.

**Blockchain for Trust-Minimized Cooperation**

As you might expect, here at Blockchains we’re kind of enamored with blockchain
technology. But we’re not maximalists; we believe blockchains will change the
world, but that doesn’t mean they offer a good solution to every problem. Some
parts of DCE governance probably don’t belong on a blockchain, and we’re not
going to force everything on chain just to say we did.

We do think, however, that there are a lot of properties of public blockchain
technology that can benefit the multi-stakeholder model: self-enforceable
contracts for dispute avoidance, decentralized arbitration for dispute
resolution, asset-level governance, transparency of resource distribution and
budgeting, and cross-border coordination, to name a few.

Before we get to all that, we need to identify who our stakeholders are, what
decisions need governing, which stakeholders should handle which decisions, and
how those decisions should be made – and those aren’t questions we seek to
answer overnight. We think they’re hard questions with complicated answers that
no one person should be responsible for answering. We expect that the complexity
of the relationships between stakeholder groups and the resources they must
manage will be significant. Further, we anticipate that the stakeholder groups
will change over time, so our governance process must be adaptable and
amendable. Nuance takes time.

For now, stay posted for updates. In the spirit of transparency and
collaboration, we’ll be publishing a series of blog posts documenting the
development process, and we invite you to offer any feedback or constructive
criticism. Over the coming months, we’ll be systematically working toward
answers to foundational questions: Who are the Blockchains stakeholders? What
are their responsibilities, rights, and motivations? What are their
relationships to each other and to Blockchains? Which decisions should each
group govern individually, and when is collaboration more beneficial? Once
established, we’ll open the development of specific, nuanced decision-making
protocols – as well as the development of automatically enforceable agreements
and other software – to more formalized community collaboration via GitHub.

Until then, contact us with any feedback or questions!

*Alison Berreman is a member of the Collaboration & Product Development
Department at Blockchains and is spearheading the company's creation of the DCE.
You can reach her at aberreman\@blockchains.com.*
