**Decision-Making Proposal**

This proposal is inspired by a governance framework known as dynamic governance,
or “sociocracy,” developed by the Dutch electrical engineer and
entrepreneur Gerard Endenburg, based on work by activist/educators Betty Cadbury
and Kees Boeke. Dynamic governance is an attempt to fuse the efficiency of
hierarchical structures and the inclusivity of horizontal ones in a consent and
purpose-driven governance model. Components of sociocracy will work well within
our existing DCE framework at the board level, and for employee-level
governance. To explain how, I will first give a short summary of dynamic
governance. Then I will explain how we can borrow from these concepts to improve
our model.

**Summary of Influential Dynamic Governance Principals**

There are **three essential principals** to dynamic governance: consent,
circles, and double-linking.

*Consent-based decision-making* is contrasted with the concept of “consensus’;
rather than require everyone to come to agreement about a decision, consent
requires only that no one has a reasoned “not over my dead body” objection.
Democracy does not emphasize consent in this way.

*Circles:* In a dynamic governance model, day-to-day operations are done
according to familiar hierarchies (there are managers, and those who are
managed), but policy-level decisions are made together.

The image below is taken from [a
slide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F818QTn6_f8&feature=youtu.be) here.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41302870/56592415-7e9dff80-659f-11e9-95d6-2c2fdd0f87f6.png)


![](media/2ab865735768f6104758d00d8151e04b.png)

In this structure, there are a series of circles extending up the hierarchy,
like pictured below. In this way, circles are a fusion of top-down and
democratic decision-making.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41302870/56592463-9ecdbe80-659f-11e9-9183-85066ee3621b.png)

![](media/ef48382b6325620325329736af1e5f75.png)

Policies may be crafted in the circle, or derived elsewhere and decided in the
circle. The process by which a circle would propose a policy together is listed
below. Fewer steps would be required early on if the proposal were drafted
separately, but then you risk not building in consideration of people’s concerns
ahead of time, potentially requiring multiple drafts to reach consent. This
method also works for electing circle representatives.

1.  Stating the purpose of the organization, and of this particular circle (ex:
    Blockchains’ purpose and then the CLD team’s purpose).

2.  State the problem needing solved. (ex: Keep the weekly CLD team meeting?)

3.  As a team, in no particular order, identify the complexity/dimensions of the
    issue. (ex: team-bonding, brain-storming opportunity, keeping everyone on
    the same page, scheduling nightmare, poorly timed with other meeting,
    redundant…)

4.  Consent to list of dimensions – every individual speaks.

5.  As a team, in no particular order, trouble-shoot possible solutions to the
    concerns/brainstorm policy solutions. (emails or slack instead, optional
    participation, move meetings around, cancel the meetings)

6.  As a group, or by way of delegate (or volunteer), draft one or more
    proposals attempting to address the concerns raised.

7.  Present proposal(s)

    1.  Clarifying question round

    2.  Quick Reaction round

8.  As long as everyone consents (doesn’t have to love it – just be okay with
    it), it’s adopted.

9.  If not, if there are reasonable objections – address. Retry

*Double-links*: Every circle has elected representation in the circle above it
(separate from the person/s occupying the highest position hierarchy, who is
necessarily already in the higher circle). This is intended to create more
continuity across the organization. Gets complicated when you have a lot of
people in middle management reporting to the same person (Ex: you have 6
managers reporting to a VP – you would then have a 13 person circle), or a
complicated org chart– though in the latter case you could just get creative
with your circles.

**A Modified and Partial Implementation: Borrowing The Best**

*In the Employee stakeholder group,* implementation is easy to imagine based on
Colony’s domain-based structure. Domains would likely constitute circles, though
it might also make sense to include subdomains in certain circles. This could be
set based on size. There might be a stipulation that no more than 10 people
might comprise a circle, or else policy-making might take far too long. However,
due to the double-link rule, that means any circle comprised of managers would
be limited to 3 managers, such that a staff member from each of their teams
could participate. In practical terms that is not doable: Thinking about the VPs
– there are like 7 of them. It wouldn’t make sense if they each brought another
person from their department and then met with Lee. It’d be a 15 person circle.
Double linking seems too time consuming. Instead, circles could be held at the
domain level, only including peers and their supervisor. Proposals could be
drafted and pushed forward in circle, and then if it was desirable to include
those lower in the hierarchy in the decision, then a vote could be used to
ensure some quorum of consent.

*At the Board Level*: The board should work well using the dynamic governance
framework. The board is comprised of representatives from each stakeholder group
(the person with the highest position in that group, or an elected
representative, depending on the nature of the stakeholder group), and some
people who are non-stakeholder group specific, as elected in a stakeholder-wide
vote – a modified “double link”. All board members are equal and consent must be
reached within committees (read: circles) prior to reaching board-wide vote.
Committees are open. Roles within committees and on the board, if contested
between two or more parties, should be subject to the consent circle. President,
secretary and treasurer included. Terms should last 1 year before requiring
re-approval.
