**Dynamic Governance: Where Cybernetics Meets Sociology**

By Rebekah Devine

Imagine a governance system where everyone’s individual voice is considered and
decisions are determined by consent. Sound like a utopian fantasy? It’s not.
Dynamic governance, also known as
[sociocracy](https://www.sociocracy.info/what-is-sociocracy/), has a track
record of real world implementation and has
[proved](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/CreativeForces-updated2012.pdf)
effective in organizations of up to 1,800 people. Case studies of sociocracy
applied around the globe range from the
[transformation](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/Living-Well-DG.pdf)
of a small eldercare facility in Vermont to the
[improvement](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/Mondriaan-Case-history.pdf)
of the Netherland’s largest mental health treatment center. The question for us
at Blockchains LLC is: Can we apply sociocratic methods to governance of a DCE?

What is dynamic governance and how did it develop? French philosopher and
sociologist Auguste Comte first
[coined](http://thesociocracygroup.com/about-us/) the term “sociocracy” in the
early 1800s to [denote](https://participedia.net/en/methods/sociocracy) rule by
the “socios,” people who have a social relationship with one another. The idea
was later [popularized](https://www.sociocracy.info/sociocracy-faq/) in the late
19th century by American sociologist Frank Ward, but at that time lacked
concrete structure. The structural mechanics of sociocracy came later,
[built](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/CreativeForces-updated2012.pdf)
on the work of 20th century scientists: Norbert Wiener, founder of cybernetics;
mathematician John Forbes Nash; and Nobel laureate Ilya Prigogine, who did
groundbreaking work in self-organizing systems and how order arises from chaos.

Before any of these scientists were established in their fields, however, a
Quaker progressive couple, Betty Cadbury and Kees Boeke, were hard at work
[developing](https://www.sociocracy.info/first-implementation-of-sociocracy/)
the principles of sociocracy at the school they founded in Bilthoven,
Netherlands, in 1926. Cadbury and Boeke took Comte’s ideas and applied them to
the learning environment at [Werkplaats
Kindergemeenschap](https://www.ecophon.com/en/knowledge/de-werkplaats/) (the
Children’s Community Workshop), so named because they wanted the students to
think of themselves as workers whose job was to learn.

When you envision a children’s school attempting to incorporate every person’s
voice and govern by consent, you might well imagine a rosy ideal quickly
devolving into the brutal chaos of *Lord of the Flies*. But within twenty years,
the Workshop, which still operates today, had grown to 400 students, staff, and
teachers, who all
[participated](https://www.sociocracy.info/first-implementation-of-sociocracy/)
in regular decision-making meetings where no action was taken until every member
consented to a decision.

The formal iteration of the sociocratic method as it is used today in
businesses, schools, and organizations was
[developed](http://thesociocracygroup.com/about-us/) in the 1970s by Gerard
Endenburg, a student at the Workshop who later become an applied cyberneticist
and electrical engineer. Endenburg began to see problems with traditional
governance approaches when he inherited his family’s manufacturing firm,
Endenburg Electrotechniek. But Endenburg also
[realized](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/CreativeForces-updated2012.pdf)
that the social sciences did not offer clear management concepts, so he used
analogies from electronic and biological processes to create the three primary
components of dynamic governance and implement them at Endenburg
Electrotechniek.

**Principles of Dynamic Governance**

The main principles of dynamic governance are known as consent, circles, and
double-linking. In contrast to consensus, where everyone must agree on a
decision,
[consent](http://thesociocracygroup.com/home/basic-principles/4-principles/) is
reached when there are no remaining paramount objections. When a policy change
is proposed, any objections are discussed, and if needed the proposal is
revised. Giving consent does not mean the proposed decision is each member’s
ideal, but rather that that they can live with the outcome and see no
substantial reason why the group should not proceed.

A sociocratic organization is comprised of multiple tiered, overlapping
[circles](http://www.sociocracyforall.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Organizational-structure_ELC_corrected.pdf).
A circle is a semi-independent team of individuals responsible for governing its
domain according to the entity’s principles. This is the horizontal element,
where everyone in the circle is a full member with equal say. But there’s also a
vertical element: Each circle functions on a different level. For example, you
might have staff members on level 1 of the hierarchy, managers on level 2, and a
CEO and board on level 3.

**Example: Tiered Sociocratic Circles**
![graph](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49038722/60052083-48f1c180-9689-11e9-9ab8-0f723c08882f.png)

This is where the principle of double-linking becomes important. Each circle has
an elected operation leader who is also a full member of the circle above it.
The lower circle also elects one of its members to represent its interests to
the higher circle (this rep is also a full member of the next level), creating a
second link. The result is a feedback loop between circles on differing levels,
ensuring that the opinions of each circle (and its members) are communicated.

The double-link feature occurs at every level. For example, the manager circle
from level 2 would have a representative that is a member of the board on level
3, and a second board member would also be part of the manager circle on level 2
to represent the board. Philosophically, the goal of the board of directors is
to work within the policies of the other circles as opposed to making executive
decisions for them. Members of the top circle often include external experts
that connect the organization to its environment and provide input. These might
be people with experience in law, government, finance, organizational mission,
or any field relevant to the operations of the organization.

“The logic of dynamic governance sets aside the either/or logic of workers
versus management,”
[write](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/CreativeForces-updated2012.pdf)
Buck and Endenburg, “It typically uses both autocratic *and* egalitarian
decision-making. It provides both a security assurance *and* a creative
stimulus.”

While Endenburg originally taught three principles as the primary components of
dynamic governance, some methods present a fourth principle
([election](http://thesociocracygroup.com/home/basic-principles/4-principles/)
by consent) as a way to further explain the consent principle. This means that
representatives are elected via the consent method by the circle they represent,
as opposed to being chosen by other, higher circles in the organization.

**Dynamic Governance as a Cultural Shift**

It’s important to recognize that dynamic governance is not simply a method for
organizing, but a lived philosophical approach to human social ontology. As I
read the case studies of organizations that implemented dynamic governance, what
struck me was not just the improvement of day-to-day operations, but how
individual participants began to see their relationship to the whole
differently.

Given responsibilities and stake in decision-making, staff members stepped up to
the plate. Managers and people in the higher circles began to view their roles
not as primary decision-makers or sources of policy change but as guides to help
steer creativity. Dee DeLuca, executive director and co-founder of Living Well
Care Home,
[says](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/Living-Well-DG.pdf)
giving employees real power to make decisions via dynamic governance has changed
their perspective: “When people know they have control over how decisions are
made in the place where they work and live, they behave differently.” Similarly,
Mondriaan for Mental Health, the Netherlands’ largest mental health treatment
center
[reported](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/Mondriaan-Case-history.pdf):

>   “Teams now function far more effectively [after implementing dynamic
>   governance]. If a team member makes a mistake, colleagues will guide him or
>   her back on track. This means that everyone takes responsibility to make
>   sure things go well. It also means that employees are more likely to
>   continually learn and improve … More people are using their strengths in
>   their jobs, so their talents are used better.”

Undergirding the sociocratic method is the
[idea](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/CreativeForces-updated2012.pdf)
that an entity will thrive and be more profitable when all its members are given
ownership and a say. “Endenburg developed these principles and applied them in
his company to prove that a business could not only function with workers
assuming responsibility for the policy decisions that affected their work, but
that it was more profitable to do so.”

As the members of Mondriaan for Mental Health learned, a top-down management
style puts key decisions in the hands of a few people who may not be in touch
with the wants and needs of the people affected by their decisions. However,
giving everyone a voice in decisions will lead to better policies because
listening to a diversity of perspectives provides vital information that should
be considered in the process:

>   “Managers, some of whom were initially wary of everyone having input into
>   policy decisions, now understand that people at different levels have
>   different perspectives and that all viewpoints are needed to make the best
>   decisions … People at all levels are [now] involved in patient care
>   decisions, rather than just those in higher management. Discussions about
>   how to care for patients are deeper. Patient care has improved.”

With dynamic governance, everyone can become a creative problem-solver. All the
input is leveraged, not just the contributions of “experts” or people further up
in the hierarchy. The organization can make the best use of all its human
resources instead of relying on the limited vision of a few. As DeLuca
[opines](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/Living-Well-DG.pdf),
“When all voices are equally heard, we achieve solutions that are very creative
– better than the top leaders could have devised, however smart they are.”
