**The Secret Governance Tool Everyone Needs**

By Rebekah Devine

Sociocracy is a revolutionary but unsung governance tool with the potential to
pay enormous dividends for the organizations and communities that implement it.
This is the conclusion I reached after a deeper dive into sociocracy (aka
dynamic governance) following the initial research for my first post, “Dynamic
Governance: Where Cybernetics Meets Sociology.” But as with any truly radical
movement, learning how to use this tool requires investment and a willingness to
embrace the persistent, unflashy (often messy) work that characterizes the most
effectual and sustainable uprisings. This post will explore why dynamic
governance is both potent and untapped and look at the primary roadblocks that
stand in the way of successful execution.

What makes sociocracy so powerful? John Buck, an international leader in
sociocratic implementation, [looks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3s6Ak-iCug)
to the octopus and its nine brains as an analogy for the kind of governance
humans need in order to improve in group intelligence. The octopus has one brain
for each of its eight arms and then a central brain. But unlike human brains,
this ninth brain functions more like a facilitator than a command and control
center. Each brain has an individual personality that coordinates with the main
brain. For example, the ninth brain might spot a crab and alert the arms to its
need for food, but then the arms will take over and coordinate to obtain the
crab using the eye information from the main brain.

By contrast, humans have no built-in coordinator and must contribute together to
build the ninth brain function. What usually happens, Buck says, is that we vie
for power and one brain ends up in the main (ninth) brain position and
collective intelligence doesn’t progress. Sociocracy trains us in how to create
that ninth brain function together. Instead of relying on the insight of one or
a handful of brains to achieve its goals, sociocracy sees each member as a
participatory but individual unit to coordinate with rather than command. It
maximizes group brainpower and effectiveness by capitalizing on the different
perspectives and capacities.

An organization or community that moves with this level of coordination can be
an incredible force for change and innovation, but training is needed to achieve
this goal. Sociocracy’s investment in learning is both its secret weapon and
greatest deterrent. [Asked](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QQ9sffUxZQ) why
organizations resist sociocracy, [Dr. Theo
Dawson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/theo-dawson-0b56b59/) of
[Lectica](https://lecticalive.org/) explains that many don’t have the skills and
will need to learn them, which can feel uncomfortable. Companies and businesses
often have established systems in place that are hostile to the dynamism of
sociocratic practice; it is much easier to implement sociocracy in a small
startup or nonprofit than in a large corporate setting. Yet Dawson says even
bigger organizations can adopt practices that lead to change, and sociocracy has
[proved
scalable](http://sociocracyconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/CreativeForces-updated2012.pdf)
in organizations of up to 1,800 people.

Dynamic governance can be uncomfortable for other reasons. Sociocracy is not
simply a management tool, but a cultural shift in the way we think about
individual participation in groups. People take ownership of their actions.
“Self-management is more than a system that serves more effective
collaboration,”
[writes](https://medium.com/@JenRau/does-the-self-management-movement-lead-to-more-divorces-ff55aa12029c)
Ted Rau, Program Director at [Sociocracy for
All](http://www.sociocracyforall.org/). “It’s a system that, if done well, is
based on willingness instead of coercion. Truth instead of expectation. Feedback
instead judgment.”

Sociocracy draws attention to pre-existing power dynamics and is serious about
renegotiating them to achieve a more equal and healthy distribution of power.
Its practices challenge those with more authority to interrogate the ways they
wield power and, conversely, encourages those who are unused to voicing their
opinions to step up to the plate. Giving up power is never easy, which means
developing into a more equitable and effective organization requires making
peace with a certain level of discomfort during transition.

Although adopting sociocracy can involve growing pains, that is precisely how
they should be viewed: as healthy signs of growth. In a
[workshop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QQ9sffUxZQ) titled “Why the Brain
Loves Sociocracy,” Dawson says that our brains are built to learn optimally and
that a blend of pleasure and discomfort is integral to the learning cycle. Our
brains release dopamine when we encounter a challenge or set a goal, she
explains, and the dopamine makes us want to strive for the goal. Dopamine is
also released when we succeed. What Dawson calls the “Goldilocks zone” is that
“sweet spot” of education where a task is challenging enough so that we want to
strive for it (and end up learning in the process), but not so hard that we fail
too many times. If we fail too often, we will want to stop. If we succeed too
often, we will also want to stop. 

Above all, sociocracy is an investment in people and the work it takes to adopt
practices that lead to communal growth. This may be another reason that
organizations resist sociocracy: at first glance, the processes can appear slow
and cumbersome. Do we really have time to listen to everyone’s opinion on
policy? Isn’t that inefficient? But as I’ve attended sociocracy trainings and
talked to people who have implemented sociocracy in their organizations, the
widespread sentiment is that taking a little extra time in the beginning to
learn well actually turns the organization into a much more efficient and
effective unit long-term.

To this point, we can take a lesson from the human brain, which needs to pause
for reflection on its experiences in order learn from them. Dawson says that
when we don’t take time to reflect and process, our unconscious brain does it
for us and may draw conclusions from it that we don’t want. Intentional
reflection essentially means we’re telling our neural network how we want to
remember the encounter.

“[Y]ou’re participating in networking your brain,” Dawson says. “And what that
does over time as you do it again and again and again (especially in the moment
… of learning contexts) [is] it builds what’s called a robust intuition. So it
builds a fast brain that can make decisions quickly when you need them. Or that
can draw conclusions quickly when you need to move fast. And it does it in a way
that you can rely upon rather than one that is misinformed by default settings
in your brain.”

Corporate culture and Silicon Valley encourage a “move fast and break things”
approach, but the simple witness of brains (both human and octopus) presents a
strong case for moving with care in the beginning to develop a robust intuition
and become a well-coordinated communal unit. Businesses may talk big about
productivity, progress, and efficiency, but when push comes to shove, there’s
nothing more wasteful than your typical corporate hierarchy that leaves all the
decisions to a small handful of brains.

As a small startup just at the beginning of things, Blockchains LLC has a unique
opportunity to choose a different path. Blockchains has attracted some of the
sharpest minds in the country and we now have access to a tool that can help us
leverage that brainpower and advance group intelligence. Do we have the drive
and patience to use it?
